,
ARE FOLLOWING SOME BREAKING
NEWS OUT OF GAZA. WE WANTED TO
BRING TO YOU I WITNESSES AND
THE HAMAS-RUN PALESTINIAN
MINISTRY OF HEALTH SAY THAT
MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE WERE
KILLED IN WHAT IS BEING
DESCRIBED AS A CHAOTIC
INCIDENT, AS IDF SOLDIERS
OPENED FIRE AS PEOPLE WERE
TRYING TO GET FOOD FROM AID
TRUCKS. CNN'S JEREMY DIAMOND IS
GATHERING NEW DETAILS. HE'S
BEEN PICKING UP SOME NEW
REPORTING. JEREMY, BRING US UP
TO SPEED HERE
>> WELL FIRST OF ALL, KATE, I
THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE
THAT THE AID SITUATION, THE
HUMANITARIAN SITUATION IN
NORTHERN GAZA, IS JUST SO, SO
DESPERATE AND THAT SEEMS TO BE
PART OF WHAT LED TO THIS SCENE.
HUNDREDS, IF NOT THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE SURROUNDING SOME OF
THESE AID TRUCKS THAT WERE ABLE
TO ENTER NORTHERN GAZA. SOME OF
THE VERY FEW AID TRUCKS THAT
HAVE ACTUALLY BEEN ABLE TO MAKE
IT IN THERE. AND YOU CAN SEE IN
THIS VIDEO BY THE ISRAELI, FROM
THE ISRAELI MILITARY, THE
CROWDS OF PEOPLE AROUND THESE
TRUCKS. BUT WHAT APPEARS TO
HAVE HAPPENED IS THAT THE
ISRAELI MILITARY OPEN FIRE ON
SOME OF THESE PEOPLE WHO ARE
SURROUNDING THESE TRUCKS AND
ISRAELI MILITARY OFFICIAL
TELLING US THAT THE CROWD
APPROACHED THE FORCES IN A
MANNER THAT POST WAS A THREAT
TO THE TROOPS. AND THEY SAY
THAT THOSE TROOPS THEN
RESPONDED WITH LIVE FIRE. NOW,
EYEWITNESSES ON THE SCENE HAVE
TOLD US THAT ISRAELI TANKS AS
WELL AS DRONES OPENED FIRE ON
THIS CROWD
>> AND THAT
>> FOLLOWING THAT, THERE WAS A
CHAOTIC SCENE. IT'S SOME OF
THE DRIVERS OF THESE AID TRUCKS
APPARENTLY TRIED TO GET AWAY
AMID THIS GUNFIRE AND KILLED
SEVERAL ADDITIONAL PEOPLE, WERE
TOLD THAT 104 PEOPLE WERE
KILLED IN THIS INCIDENT, 760
PEOPLE INJURED ACCORDING TO THE
PALESTINIAN MINISTRY OF HEALTH,
IT'S NOT CLEAR YET HOW MANY OF
THOSE WERE KILLED BY ISRAELI
GUNFIRE VERSUS BUY HE'S TRUCKS
AND THE ENSUING CHAOS BUT ARE
EYEWITNESSES ON THE GROUND
INDICATE THAT IT WAS THE
ISRAELI GUNFIRE THAT PROMPTED
SOME OF THOSE TRUCKS TO FLEE
THE SCENE. AND IN THE PROCESS,
RUN OVER SOME OF THESE
INDIVIDUALS. BUT WE ARE STILL
WORKING TOGETHER ADDITIONAL
DETAILS. THE ISRAELI MILITARY
SAYS FOR ITS PART THAT THE
INCIDENT IS UNDER REVIEW AND
THEY ARE ALSO SAYING IN A
STATEMENT THAT GAZAN RESIDENTS
SURROUNDED THE TRUCKS, LOADED
THE SUPPLIES BEING DELIVERED,
AND THAT DURING THE INCIDENT,
DOZENS OF GAZANS, THEY SAY WERE
INJURED AS A RESULT OF PUSHING
AND TRAMPLING. THIS WAS CLEARLY
MORE THAN JUST PUSHING AND
TRAMPLING. AND WE HAVE
EYEWITNESSES MAKING VERY CLEAR
THAT THE ISRAELI MILITARY DID
INDEED OPEN FIRE HAIR ON THESE
INDIVIDUALS AS WELL. NOW, WE
SHOULD NOTE THAT THIS IS ONLY
HAPPENING BECAUSE OF HOW
DESPERATE THE HUMANITARIAN
SITUATION IS IN NORTHERN GAZA.
VERY FEW AID TRUCKS HAVE
ACTUALLY BEEN ABLE TO MAKE IT
IN THERE. THE WORLD FOOD
PROGRAM RECENTLY SUSPENDED AID
DELIVERIES TO NORTHERN GAZA,
SAYING THAT IT WAS TOO UNSAFE.
PART OF THAT HAS TO DO DO WITH
A LACK OF COORDINATION WITH THE
ISRAELI MILITARY TO GET THOSE
TRUCKS INTO A WARZONE SAFELY IN
A WAY THAT THEY ARE NOT
TARGETED. AND IT ALSO HAS TO DO
WITH THE FACT THAT THE ISRAELI
MILITARY IN THE PAST HAS
TARGETED POLICE OFFICERS WHO
HAVE BEEN AROUND THOSE AID
CONVOYS. AND SO THERE'S VERY
LITTLE SECURITY FOR THESE. YOU
COMBINE THAT LACK OF SIX
PURITY. YOU COMBINE THAT WITH
THE FACT THAT PEOPLE ARE ON THE
BRINK OF FAMINE IN NORTHERN